.TH OPENNAP SECTION "July 23, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
opennap-ng \- Next Generation Open Source Napster Server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opennap
.RI [ -bhrsv ] [ -c DIR ] [ -p PORT ] [ -l IP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Napster is a protocol for sharing files between clients.
The server acts as a broker and search engine for client
transfers. It also features group and private chat, similar
to IRC.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
For a complete description, see the HTML file /usr/share/doc/opennap-ng/manual.html.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-c DIR
Read config files from DIR (default: /etc/opennap).
.TP
.B \-b
Run as a background process (daemon).
.TP
.B \-l IP
Listen only on IP instead of all interfaces.
.TP
.B \-p PORT
Listen on PORT for connections (default: 8888).
.TP
.B \-r
Disable remote configuration commands.
.TP
.B \-s
Channels may only be created by privileged users.
.TP
.B \-v
Display version information.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/bans
List of server-wide bans on clients.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/channels
Database of predefined group chat channels.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/config
Main configuration file containing server options.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/filter
List of words to skip when searching/indexing files.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/motd
Message of the day, the text shown to users when they log in.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/servers
Database of servers to link with.
.TP
.I /etc/opennap-ng/users
Registered users database.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR metaserver (1), opennapconf (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Johan Schurer <leodav@users.sf.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
